> **A Server is just another Computer on the Network > A Resource is searched/requested and a Response is given by the Server**

> **Based on the Request, a Response is generated by the Server // A Client needs to send a Request which is handled by the Server and the Response is given to the client.**

> **Need to rename Demo files to Index.js to run them**

> **Index.js needs to be outside just like React Directory**

# Initialize

- `npm init`

  > This initialises the Node Package Manager and creates File Dependencies using package.json.

- `npm i express`
  > To Install Express.js

## Production Dependency and Development Dependency

> Production Dependency will mean the Package will be required for Final Production Build.

> If some packages or dependency are in Development Dependency, then they don't bundle up with the Final Production Build and they will be required only when the development takes place.

> Example : Nodemon will be required only when we are undertaking development and not in the Final Build.

**Everything is Exported as a Module in Node just like a Component in React**

# Nodemon

Nodemon is a tool that helps develop Node.js based applications by automatically restarting the node application when file changes in the directory are detected.

It is a useful tool to reflect changes automatically in the Browser upon saving the original file.

# Node Development

- Ex: **document.querySelectorAll('h1');**
  > Writing this will crash the Server because we cannot access the DOM or the Window Object using NODE
  
- But we can access the **File System** using NODE which cannot be accessed using DOM or the Window Object.
- Hence We can Create, Read, Write, Update, Delete files using NODE.
- Node.js relies heavily on Events > Also, we can create custom events.
- Take care of Synchronous and Asynchronous Codes while developing the Server because it will affect the output.